                CSI COIMBATORE DIOCESE
Lesson-3 - Stephen- The Martyr
CHILDREN MINISTRY
Bible Passage:
SUNDAY SCHOOL SYLLABUS
Acts 6:5; I Corinthians 16:15,17; Acts 7:1-53; Acts 6:11-15; Acts 7:54-58; Acts 7:59,60; Acts 8:1,2; Acts 11:19-21; Acts 22:20.
INTER TEACHERS HAND BOOK
Friday :
FIRST YEAR
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY -1- INTER LESSON -3
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY -2- INTER LESSON -3
The Central Theme:
Persistent till the end.
Memory Verse:
For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Aim:
To teach children about inheriting the crown of righteousness that is kept for us.
Daily Bible Meditation:
Monday :
Stephen-anointed by Holy Spirit (Acts 6:5; I Corinthians 16:15,17)
Tuesday :
Stephen-the evangelist
(Acts 7:1-53; Acts 7:59-60) Stephen being convicted.
(Acts 6:11-15)
Stephen being stoned.
(Acts 7:54-58)
Stephen’ s character of forgiveness. (Acts 7:59,60)
The first blood witness.
W ednesday :
Thursday :
Saturday :
Teacher’s Preparation
(Acts 8:1,2; 11:19-21; 22:20)
Romans 8:38,39.

              The situation of Simson, who forgot the Lord's calling, became worse. Being saved is not just accepting Jesus in our hearts and saying I can go to heaven surely; it's about living our life according to His will forever. According to I Timothy 6:11-12, we have to fight the good fight of faith. Have faith and hope on Christ. Run towards the goal, knowing God's will and plan. By kicking away the sins that stop us from being successful, we should try to progress to inherit the crown that is invincible. Seek the best (Colossians 3:1-17)
Stephen anointed by Holy Ghost Stephen a witness (Acts 6:3,5)
Class Time:
The synagogue of Libertines and Cyrenians and Alexandrians and them of Cilicia and Asia disputed with Stephen. They were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spoke.
Jesus Christ was born in the womb of Mary, who submitted herself to God for his word to be done. Let's learn about a young man who leads his life according to his heart's desires and returns to his father and reconciles. According to Ecclesiastes 11:9, Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment. We will rejoice seeing the glory, when we submit to God's plan. In the lesson that we are going to see, let's see how Stephen offered his life to God and stood without fear seeing God's glory even in the dead end.
Stephen-The evangelist (Acts 7:1-53)
Event from the Bible:
About Stephen: Stephen is one among the anointed men (Acts 6:5)
Stephen’s face looked like the face of an angel (acts 6:15)
men.
Full of faith and Holy Ghost, Stephen was one among the seven
All who sat in the council looked steadfastly on him and saw his face as it had been the face of an angel.
Stephen's responsibility in the church (Acts 6:1-8)
When the number of the disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. Then the apostles called the multitude of the disciples unto them and looked for seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, and they chose Stephen among the seven; who was full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people.
Stephen did miracles (Acts 6:8)
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY -3-
INTER LESSON -3
The synagogue was not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spoke. Then they suborned men, who said that they heard him CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY -4- INTER LESSON -3
The whole multitude was pleased, saying he was full of wisdom and the Holy Ghost. Stephen was full of faith and power (Acts 6:8) and did great wonders and miracles.
Stephen full of wisdom (Acts 6:3,10)
Stephen preached how the forefathers went away from God, and God forgave them even though they made him angry, how they were against the Holy Spirit, and killed the people who declared about the coming of Jesus ( John the Baptist). He also preached how they weren’t following the laws in truth, even though He knew he was in danger.
Stephen, who was full of wisdom and Holy Ghost, full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people.
Stephen tortured:
Stephen being accused (Acts 6:11-14)

       speak blasphemous words against Moses and against God. And they stirred up the people and the elders and the scribes and came upon him and caught him and brought him to the council.
Prayer:
Stephen being stoned (Acts 7:54-58)
Our loving Heavenly Father! Even today, we thank you for speaking to us. Anoint us with the Holy Ghost and help us to stand firm on the decisions that we take to follow your word forever. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
When people heard Stephen’s preaching, they gnashed their teeth on him. He, being full of the Holy Ghost and looking up steadfastly into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God. They cried out with a loud voice, stopped their ears, ran upon him with one accord, cast him out of the city, and stoned him.
Stephen’s act of forgiveness (Acts 7:59,60)
Stephen was stoned, calling upon God and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit, and he kneeled and cried with a loud voice, "Lord, lay not this sin to their charge." And when he said this, he fell asleep.
Stephen- The first blood witness (Acts 8:12; 11:19-21; 22:20)
Except for the apostles' everyone else was scattered to different places. The word of God spread wherever they were scattered. Stephen died as the first martyr.
Conclusion:
According to Rev 3:21, when we stay in God we can inherit the crown of eternal life.
For meditation:
pleasing God?
Are you praying knowing God’s will for your future?
Are you working towards your life’s purpose in the right path? Have you ever thought about whether your speech, walk, and action are
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY -5- INTER LESSON -3
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY -6-
INTER LESSON -3
