                                   CSI COIMBATORE DIOCESE
PART  1 THE MINISTRY OF THE APOSTLES LESSON  1
CHILDREN MINISTRY
PETER-THE ROCK
Bible Passage:John 21:15-19, Acts 2:1-18, Acts 3:1-6
SUNDAY SCHOOL SYLLABUS
The Central Theme:Christ is my lifeline Memory Verse:INTER TEACHERS HAND BOOK:Peter’s apostolic ministry Acts 3:1-16 5:1-16 11:1-18
FIRST YEAR CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 2 INTER LESSON 1 CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 1 INTER LESSON 1
“But you are a chosen generation A royal priesthood a holy nation His own special people that you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light”.
 1 Peter 2:9
Aim:Monday Tuesday:Peter’s call Matthew 4:18-20 Matthew 10:2
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday:Christ’s prophecy about Peter Luke 22:31-34 Luke 22:54-60
To teach children about Peter ‘a fisherman to fishers of men’.
Teacher’s Preparation Daily Bible Meditation::Peter and Christ Matthew 16:15-20 Matthew 21:24 Matthew 14:25-33 Luke 9:28, John 13:5-9:Peter’s Repentance
Luke 22:61-62, John 21:15-19:Peter anointed by the Holy Spirit Acts 2:1-8, 2:36-41

   The LORD God created man by the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and man became a living being. Spirit + Soul + Flesh. A soul represents an individual.
In the part of Apostolic ministry we will see how God chosen people submitted themselves wholly to God how they stood faithfully until the end in their salvation and holiness how they turned from their sinful self and became a new person how they were filled with the love of Christ and how they worked in unity.
As the Scripture says in Matthew 10:28 and Ezekiel 18:4-20 “The soul who sins shall die” we can conclude that the soul will be destroyed on sinning. We need to save us and also others from the eternal hell. So it is supreme that one needs to win souls for God.
In the second and third part of prophecy and teaching ministry we would learn about their steadfast faith how they received blessings through perseverance their submission to Christ about their burdened prayer for the salvation of souls how they were determined in their commitment how they prepared their household to serve God to earn wisdom rather than wealth the importance of meditating the word of God the importance of sharing the gospel with others and how to walk in Christ’s footsteps all our life.
According to Ecclesiastes 3:19 and Psalm 146:4 when one dies-the fleshreturns to the earth. But the Spiritreturns back to God. When one dies Psalm 71:20 the thoughts perish as well. When the judgment day comes our memories will be restored for the eternal judgment. Depends on how we lived IE if we lived a holy life we will be sent to the heaven if our life was sinful we will send to the hell. Human will become a living sword.
Today when God choose us He expects us to be firm like a rock. It is because he relates the person who obeys the voice of God to a house that is built upon a rock. Yes the rock is firm. When we face troubles in our life we should be faithful to Him. We need to swim against the troubled waters and stand strong in faith on the One who changes our failures to success.
Through this lesson we will learn about gaining our souls and securing our eternal life and also bringing others to Christ. Let’s see how the Biblical characters ministered for Christ and brought the souls under the Shepherd’s flock. When the Lord calls us to minister we can learn through the life of these warriors of Christ. The Lord commands us this responsibility of bringing others to Christ. 1 Corinthians 9:16 Christ has preached about this Kingdom of God. Mark 1:14-15
Accepting the sin repenting and choosing to walk in the righteous path is the first step to receive God’s grace and mercy. The life of Peter is a perfect example for us to get close to God and to bring others to Christ is of how God changed an ignorant person.
When God choses His children He has a specific plan for them. When we would submit to His will like a clay in the potter’s hand God will make us as His precious treasure and use us for Him.
Class Time:Even when we are weak and are foolish lacking wisdom there is no doubt that God will mold us to do greater things wisely.
A double-minded person is unstable. One cannot come up in life when he is unstable like the water courses. No one can serve two masters. Neither one foot on water and other on land. It is difficult to serve God and mammon. Yes Peter the fisherman turned to a world renowned Apostle on accepting Christ. Are you a double-minded person?
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 3 INTER LESSON 1
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 4 INTER LESSON 1

                                  We face a lot of ups and downs in life were we are forced to backslide in our faith in Christ. Fewer times we hold on to God steadfast Television WhatsApp Facebook whereas few other times we end up back answering our parents and falling for sinful pleasures unable to come out –do you face these situations? How did Peter being one as this carry on the apostolic ministry? Let us meditate on how Peter stood in faith until the end and died a martyr.
Peter in the Mount of Transfiguration Luke 9:28-36
Simon son of Jonah was a fisherman.
Prophecy on Peter by Jesus Luke 22:31-34
Peter called as disciple Matthew 10:2, 4:18-20
Jesus said “Indeed Satan has asked for you that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for you that your faith should not fail...” Peter replied “Lord I am ready to go with You both to prison and to death.” Jesus said “I tell you Peter the rooster shall not crow this day before you will deny me three times that you know Me.” These were prophesied about him by Jesus.
Peter’s Early Life
When Jesus started to tell His disciples about His suffering and death Peter took Him aside and rebuked Him that this should not happen to Him. He spoke those things in his flesh not realizing that he is speaking to the redeemer.
Peter’s Profession Matthew 4:18, 16:17 first part
God called Peter the fisherman to become fishers of men. On obeying he became His disciple as well as the Apostle.
Peter’s faith and unfaithfulness Matthew 14:25-33
Peter saw Jesus walking on water and was afraid. Immediately Jesus said “It is I do not be afraid.” And Peter answered Him and said “Lord if it is You command me to come to You on the water.”So He said “Come.” Immediately he walked on the water to go to Jesus. Since the wind was boisterous unfavorable circumstance he was afraid. But Jesus stretched out His hand and caught him as the God who called is faithful.
Peter’s Repentance Peter cries for repentance Luke 22:61-62
Peter confessing Jesus as ‘the Christ’ Matthew 16:15-20, John 6:67-69
Peter witnesses the resurrected Christ John 20:1-8 21:1-11 15-19
Simon Peter told Jesus that “You are the Christ the Son of the living God.” Jesus answered “... I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven and whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.”This was God’s revelation to Peter.
During the first day of the week when Mary Magdalene came to the tomb where Jesus’ body was laid she saw the stone was rolled out. She and the other disciples did not go in but Peter stepped inside and saw the linen clothes lying there and the face-cloth which had been on His head not lying with the linen cloths but folded together in a place by itself. Later Jesus appeared in their midst and said “Peace be with you”.
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 5 INTER LESSON 1
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 6 INTER LESSON 1
Jesus went to a highest mountain with Peter James and John. No one were with them. They saw Jesus there his robe turn white and was glistening. They saw he was conversing with Moses and Prophet Elijah. Later Peter told Jesus “It is good to be here, and let us make three tabernacles...”
Peter spoke in flesh Matthew 16:21-24
Peter denied Jesus Christ thrice before the rooster crew. He repented for it and wept bitterly.

                                                             Peter’s Backsliding and Repentance:After a while Jesus appeared to His disciples in the sea shore of Tiberius. Peter and his fellow disciples went fishing again but the catch was empty. By then Jesus asked them whether they have something to eat they replied that the catch was empty. So He replied asking them to let down the fishing nets by the right side of the boat and the net was overflowing. After Jesus ate He asked Simon Peter “Do you love me?” He asked this thrice Peter replied “You knew everything Lord You knew that I love You.”He spoke in his spirit rather in his flesh. To this Jesus said “Shepherd My sheep.” And called him to minister.
fellowship to the breaking of bread and to prayer. They had all things in common, and they began selling their property and possessions and were sharing them with all as anyone might have need.
Peter’s Apostolic Ministry Peter strengthened by the Holy Spirit Acts 2:1-18
Now Peter and John were going up to the church and they saw a man who had been lame from his mother’s womb was being carried along whom they used to set down every day at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful in order to beg alms of those who were entering the church When he saw Peter and John about to go into the church he began asking to receive alms. But Peter along with John fixed his gaze on him and said “Look at us!” And he began to give them his attention expecting to receive something from them. But Peter said “I do not possess silver and gold but what I do have I give to you:In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene— walk!” And seizing him by the right hand he raised him up, and immediately his feet and his ankles were strengthened. With a leap he stood upright and began to walk, and he entered the temple with them walking and leaping and praising God. And all the people saw him walking and praising God, and they were taking note of him as being the one who used to sit at the Beautiful Gate of the church to beg alms and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.
After the Passover feast 50 days later on the day of Pentecost they had gathered together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven a noise like a violent rushing wind and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. And there appeared to them tongues as of fire distributing themselves and they rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit was giving them utterance and Peter was also strengthened by the Holy Spirit.
Peter’s first sermon Acts 2:14-40
Other people were surprised that each one heard them speak their languages. In the midst of the crowd Peter stood up with the eleven and started to preach “You all knew the miracles that Christ did it was God’s plan to have made Him to be surrendered in your hands and be crucified bythe sinners but God raised Him from the dead death could not hold Him” A lot many people heard his preaching repented and were baptized.
Death of Ananias and Sapphira Acts 5:1-16
The Growing of Church after Peter’s preaching Acts 2:41-47
A man named Ananias with his wife Sapphira sold a piece of property and kept back some of the price for himself with his wife’s full knowledge and bringing a portion of it he laid it at the apostles’ feet. But Peter said “Ananias why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back some of the price of the land? While it remained unsold did it not remain your own? And after it was sold was it not under your control? Why is it that you have conceived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men
So then those who had received his word were baptized and that day there were added about three thousand souls.They were continually devoting themselves to the apostles’ teaching and to
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 7 INTER LESSON 1
Miracles through Peter Healing the Lame Acts 3:1-16
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 8 INTER LESSON 1

                                                                                but to God.” And as he heard these words Ananias fell down and breathed his last and dead. Later his wife entered the place Peter asked her the same and even she also lied peter was fierce and told her about what happened because of their lie the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door and they will carry you out as well.” And immediately she fell at his feet and breathed her last and died.
Peter’s Deliverance from the Prison
Samaritans receiving the Holy Spirit Acts 8:14-25
behold an angel of the Lord suddenly appeared and a light shone in the cell, and he struck Peter’s side and woke him up saying “Get up quickly.” And his chains fell off his hands. And the angel said to him “Gird yourself and put on your sandals.” And he did so. And he *said to him “Wrap your cloak around you and follow me.” And he went out and continued to follow and he did not know that what was being done by the angel was real but thought he was seeing a vision. When they had passed the first and second guard they came to the Iron Gate that leads into the city which opened for them by itself, and they went out and went along one street and immediately the angel departed from him. When Peter came to himself he said “Now I know for sure that the Lord has sent forth His angel and rescued me from the hand of Herod and from all that the Jewish people were expecting.” And when he realized this he went to the house of Mary the mother of John who was also called Mark where many were gathered together and were praying. When he knocked at the door of the gate a servant-girl named Rhoda came
Samarians accepted the word of God when the apostles came to know about this Peter and John was sent to Samaria. There Peter touched those peoples head to anoint them with the Holy Spirit they were touched and were filled with the Holy Spirit. A person called Simon was seeing this and asked Peter to teach this trick for money peter upbraided him saying give up your terrible thinking repent and confess it might be forgiven.
Healing the bedridden man Acts 9:32-35
Peter travelled to visit the saints in Lydda  there he found a man Aeneas who was bedridden for eight years Peter said to him “Aeneas Jesus Christ heals you, get up and make your bed.” Immediately he got up. And all who lived at Lydda and Sharon saw him and they turned to the Lord.
Bringing back from the dead Acts 9:36-43
to answer. When she recognized Peter’s voice because of her joy she did not open the gate but ran in and announced that Peter was standing in front of the gate. They said to her “You are out of your mind!” But she kept insisting that it was so. They kept saying “It is his angel.” But Peter continued knocking, and when they had opened the door they saw him and were amazed. But motioning to them with his hand to be silent he described to them how the Lord had led him out of the prison.
In Joppa there was a disciple named Tabitha was dead by sickness  her relatives bathed her and kept her corpse in her home and they were mourning for her peter saw that and sent everyone out kneeled down and prayed  he turned towards the corpse and said wake up Tabitha she opened her eyes  peter made her to sit and shown her to everyone and everyone started to believe in Jesus Christ.
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 9 INTER LESSON 1
During the days of Unleavened Bread Peter was arrested by the king Herod in order to mistreat him When he had seized him he put him in prison delivering him to four squads of soldiers to guard him On the very night when Herod was about to bring him forward Peter was sleeping between two soldiers bound with two chains and
7 guards in front of the door were watching over the prison. And
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 10 INTER LESSON 1

                                                       Peter preaching to the Gentiles:Acts 10 Acts 11:12
God heard Cornelius’ prayer and his workers took Peter to his house a lot of people were gathered there to listen to Peter’s preaching. When he started to preach the Holy Spirit started to fill those people. Peter witnessed that God fills the Gentiles as well apart from the Jews by their faith in Christ. He praised God for his mercy upon the Gentiles.
Jesus Prophesies about Peter’s death John 21:16
Jesus told Peter that “I say to you when you were younger you used to gird yourself and walk wherever you wished, but when you grow old you will stretch out your hands and someone else will gird you and bring you where you do not wish to go.” Now this He said signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God”.
Conclusion
In accordance to 1 Corinthians 1:24 when we heed God’s call He will provide us with His strength and wisdom.
Thought:When Peter faced trouble he denied God. Are you doing the same when you fail in your studies or when you face problems in family? Or are you standing strong in your convictions? Have you forgotten the resolutions that you took during your birthdays and New Year’s Eve or are you standing strong on your resolutions?
Are you waiting to take revenge on someone like Peter who cut the ear of the security who arrested Jesus? It’s not too late to confess and repent. Let the love of God fill your hearts. Are you being lazy to complete the duty given to you? Or are you trying to prove God that you love Him like the Peter and shepherd God’s flock?
Prayer:Ever loving God thank You for choosing us. Mold us to work in accordance to Your will and help us to lead our life that pleases You. Amen.
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 11 INTER LESSON 1
