                CSI COIMBATORE DIOCESE
LESSON-2 PAUL  AWAITING IN FAITH Bible passage:CHILDREN MINISTRY
Acts 22:1-6, Philippians 3:5-6 Acts 9:1-20, Acts 9:22-28, I Corinthians 9:1-2, Galatians 1:11-17, Acts 11:25-30, Acts 12:25, Acts 13:1-4, Acts 15:36-39, Acts 16:1-40, Acts 18:23-28.
SUNDAY SCHOOL SYLLABUS
The Central Theme:INTER TEACHERS HAND BOOK
Friday:Paul’ s suffering.
Acts 13:50-52, Acts 14:11 FIRST YEAR
Saturday:Paul’ s final days.
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 1 INTER LESSON 2
Acts 28:17-31
To be in Christ is a new creation.
Memory Verse:“I therefore so run not as uncertainly, so fight I not as one that beateth the air:But I keep under my body and bring it into subjection:lest that by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be a castaway”.
Aim:Teaching the children about the ministry of Saul the Paul.
Teacher’s Preparation Daily Bible Meditation:Monday:Paul’ s zealous devotion during his youth. Acts 22:1-6, Phillippians 3:5-6
Tuesday:Paul’ s changing attitudes. Acts 9:1-20, Acts 22:5-21
W ednesday:Paul’s ministry as an Apostle.
I Corinthians 9:1-2 Galatians 1:11-17 Galatians 21-24
Thursday:Paul’ s journey as a Missionary.
Acts 13:14-52, Acts 16:1-40, Acts 18:23-28
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 2 INTER LESSON 2
I Corinthians 9:26-27

            Adam and Eve’s disobedience bought sin into this world and through sin came death. However through Jesus Christ's obedience many are led into righteousness and through grace we can have eternal life. When we accept Jesus Christ as our savior the older man's sinful behavior is destroyed and becomes a new creation. For us to become righteous He who doesn't know to sin became a sacrifice. His compassion washes our sins and we become a new being. Jesus said "One who is not born again cannot enter into the Kingdom of God." Being born again is turning from our sins and manly desires by transforming to be righteous with the renewed spirit. Let's see about people who were a new creation in Christ.
Paul’s change in mind.
Paul hearing Christ’s voice:Acts 9:1-2, Acts 22:5-21
Class Time:The children of Jesus were tied and while bringing the books from Jerusalem to Damascus a light shone and fell on Saul. “ Saul! Saul! Why are you giving me sorrow?" hearing this voice Saul asked Lord! Who are you? The Jesus who you are troubling is me, its hard to kick against the pricks said Paul. Jesus considers troubling his children as troubling himself. Immediately on hearing Jesus's voice Paul instantly obeyed him and asked for his will. Jesus asked him to go to the city. Paul could eat and drink for three days and was blind, he sees a vision where Ananiah keeps his hand on Paul and his eyes are opened. When God says Ananiah to search for Saul he was afraid. When Ananiah kept his hands on Saul scales of fish fell from his eyes and he gained his eyesight and was baptized and preached Christ as the true God. He has shed his blood for all of us. Will you pray for people who are against God to become Jesus's children?
Being born into a Christian family cannot make us capable of entering the Kingdom of God. Being called a Christian cannot make us capable of inheriting the Kingdom of God, rather one should reveal Christ. How should those involved in the act of flesh Galatians 5:19-21 benefit the soul? Our thoughts should become Christ's thoughts. How does Saul who grew zealous in devotion change to a new creation in Christ as Paul. We also should not glorify ourselves for being a Christian but should reflect Christ's identities in us. Let us devote to how Saul dedicated to being an Apostle.
Paul with Jesus’s disciples:Acts 9:22-28 Galatians 1:18-19
Paul’s beginning:1. Paul who grew by the feet of Gamaliel:Acts 22:16
When Paul preached that Jesus was the true God jews thought of killing Paul. The disciples let Paul down in a basket to escape from them. The disciples feared to join Paul with them. Barnabas joined with Saul. When he testified to the disciples that he spoke with the Lord disciples accepted him how Barnabas agreed with Saul. In the same way can you welcome who are new believers in Christ and love them?
Paul belonged to Tarsus city in Cilicia, he is a Jew from the tribe of Benjamin. Paul learned aright about Jews biblical laws being beside Gamaliel’s feet.
2. Zealous devotion during his youth:Acts 22:3 Phillippians 3:5-6
Paul’s Ministry:Ministry as an Apostle:I Corinthians 9:1-2 Galatians 1:11-17 Galatians 21-24
Paul was circumcised on the 8th day and a Pharisee who was not blamed against the law. He was very zealous among Jews and troubled the churches. Saul was one of the people who agreed to stone Stephen to death. He was very zealous in his youth and troubled the churches.
When Paul became a new creation in Christ He submitted him for apostolic ministry. Christ has separated Paul from his mother's womb and called him through grace. God used him to preach the gospel to peripheral nations.
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 3 INTER LESSON 2
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 4 INTER LESSON 2

            Paul in Antioch:Acts 11:25-30
The third missionary journey:Antioch Ephesus Acts 18:27-28 Acts 19:1
Barnabas and Paul preached in the church of Antioch for one year. It was in Antioch the disciples were named Christians. Agabus signified there would be a great dearth throughout all the world. The disciples saved money and gave it to Paul and Barnabas and sent them to Judaea.
Paul strengthened the disciples of Galatia and Phrygia. The eloquent and mighty man in the scriptures named Apollos came to Ephesus. He knew only the baptism given by John. Aquila and Priscilla took him unto them and expounded the way of God more perfectly. Apollos was of great help to believers through grace.
The first missionary journey:Antioch Perga Derbe Acts 13:1-4, Acts 13:14-52, Acts 14:1-20
Paul sent Barnabas for ministry through the church. When they were in the church of Antioch they were called to preach and paul preached that Jesus is the Christ. He taught there is forgiveness through Jesus. The gentiles glorified God. Jews after chasing Paul and Barnabas they went to Iconium. After creating a riot in Iconium Jews went to Lystra and Derbe, Paul healed a man who was impotent in his feet in Lystra. On seeing this the people said that the Gods have come in the form of humans. When they came to make the sacrifice for them Paul and Barnabas said we are also humans with sorrow like every other human. Leave behind the vain Gods and turn towards the living God who created the heavens and the earth.
The fourth missionary journey:Rome Acts 27 Acts 28
The second missionary journey:Antioch Athens Acts 15:36-39, 16:I 40, 17:34
Paul’s Spiritul gifts:I Corinthians 12:1-11, Corinthians 7:7, 2:6-7, 12:13-16 Acts 13:6-11, Acts 20:29-30
Paul chose Silas and went to Lystra again. There He gets the friendship of Timotheus. There was a vision to go to Macedonia and help Paul. He went immediately. Lydia’s family is getting baptized in Philippi. When the spirit of divination in a womanwas freed her masters cast them into prison by charging the jailor to keep them safely. In the middle of the night Paul and Silas were praying and singing praises. Paul and Silas worshipped God through troubled times. Are we glorifying God like Paul and Silas when we are through sorrow? Or else are we murmuring. Let us sing praises and have victory. When Paul and Silas sang praises the bands were loosed. The jailor's family was saved. Through this journey of Paul's ministry even though He went through so much trouble He stood for Jesus and gained many souls.
Paul was an example of having many gifts. The word of wisdom the word of knowledge the gifts of healing discerning of spirits divers kinds of tongues the interpretation of tongues and so on were the gifts given to Paul. Paul wishes to speak God's wisdom. He speaks courageously that we also have Christ's thoughts. In Paphos Elymas the sorcerer searched the option to turn Paul from his faith. Paul was filled with the Holy Spirit and condemned him. You can also get gifts like Paul when you ask Jesus.
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 4 INTER LESSON 2
In the sail that was going to Italy Paul and other prisoners entered. They were tossed with a tempest named Euroclydon and underwent many sufferings. Paul said there wouldn't be any deaths and neither a hair falls from your head, he took the bread broke it and ate it. Everyone escaped on the island called Melita. The barbarous people shewed us with love. They were astonished seeing that the venomous beast did not harm Paul. Paul healed Publius's father. When Paul reached Rome He dwelled with the soldier. Paul spoke about the Kingdom of God.
CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 5 INTER LESSON 2

       Paul’s sorrow
Paul’s sufferings:Acts 13:50-52, Acts 14:1-3, Acts 17:13-14
I Corinthians 12:24-27
Paul has journeyed more has been hurt more and was beaten five times with forty stripes less one by the Jews. Thrice was beaten with rods once was stoned thrice suffered shipwreck a night and a day have been in the deep. In perils of waters in perils of robbers in perils by mine own countrymen in perils by the heathen in perils in the city in perils in the wilderness in perils in the sea in perils among false brethren. One who is in Christ is a new creation, Paul is an example.
Paul’s final days:Acts 28:17-31
Paul stayed in a rented house in Rome and spoke about the Kingdom of God. Paul after hearing the Lord's voice expounded and testified the Kingdom of God persuading them concerning Jesus. Dear sister and brother what are you willing to do for Jesus like Paul. Surrender yourself to Jesus He will make use of you in many ways.
Conclusion:We should fight a good fight leaving the world's greatness behind Phillippians 3:11-14 and running towards the heavenly gifts like Paul.
For meditation:We spend more time in front of the mirror to decorate ourselves on the outside how much time are we spending to have our inner being holy! Prayer Bible reading how much time
Are we trying like Paul for Christ to be born in our hearts Galatians 4:9 can we say surely that no trouble can separate us from our God?
Prayer:Our Loving Heavenly father! Thank you for loving us and for becoming a living sacrificing. Strengthen us to live for you speak your love to everyone and gather them in your flock. In Jesus's name amen. CSICDC CHILDREN MINISTRY 4 INTER LESSON 2
